# 2D Coprime Pilot Design for Sensing Range-Accuracy Optimization in OFDM-ISAC Systems

Integrated Sensing and Communication (ISAC) is envisioned to endow future 6G systems with seamless sensing capabilities. To this end, sparsely embedded pilots within communication frames offer a promising solution to achieve efficient sensing without compromising data transmission. 
However, existing works predominantly focus on maximizing the ambiguity-free sensing range without further optimizing the sensing accuracy, lacking a unified framework for joint design.
In this paper, we propose to jointly optimize sensing range and accuracy for delay-Doppler (DD) parameters in OFDM-ISAC systems, where sensing mutual information (SMI) is adopted as a unified performance metric.
The joint optimization of sensing range and accuracy is transformed into an SMI maximization problem by systematically resolving sensing ambiguity and optimizing sensing accuracy. In particular, based on the generalized Bezout identity, we first derive a 2D (time-frequency) coprime condition in DD domain, which is necessary and sufficient to achieve the unique resolution of DD parameters. Due to the joint design in the time and frequency domain, the proposed condition provides much higher freedom for sensing accuracy optimization, as compared to existing designs that rely on predefined patterns in the time and frequency domain separately. With the ambiguity-free condition, we then propose an Adam-Guided Iterative Refinement (AGIR) algorithm to optimize the sensing accuracy. Numerical results demonstrate the advantage of the proposed framework over existing designs and highlights the flexibility of 2D coprime condition.
